Just to give you a taste of what we're going to be doing in the project why don't we make a three column
layout with devs and with.
Now an index and HDMI.
We're going to create first of all we're gonna get her of this closing dear.
I don't want that.
And you know what.
Let me make this a little bit smaller for now and let's write that there's gonna be a Dave.
Now Dave is gonna have some kind of class so I'm gonna say class of one and maybe we can add some texture.
I don't know 10 words.
This is gonna be good enough.
Now I'm gonna copy and paste this two more times and I'm gonna change these class names.
I'm going to say this is not gonna be number one.
Instead we're gonna be looking for number two that's gonna be my name and the third one is gonna be
number three.
Again very very original.
I'm gonna head over back to my C assess and just because this is a little bit annoying to me the default
ones that come with because I would like to show you how the three column layout is gonna come up I'm
going to do a reset again where I'm just gonna say margin is gonna be equal to zero.
Adding is gonna be equal again to zero and border box is gonna be equal to a box sizing voter but I'm
sorry it was box sizing box it's not shadow I haven't covered I have one air and water box.
Again it might be an overkill in general for small examples that we're doing but I just like to show
you a correct three column layout and otherwise it's not gonna good look good as good as I want.
OK so let's start with the class number one let's say that for the class number one.
Well first of all graph loaded to the left.
Now again we notice 13 something is happening because our layout changed but I think it's gonna be easier
to show you.
Background on background attachment is something we covered but I don't want it to say background is
gonna be red.
And what else I would want.
Well maybe let's add some height of I don't know 200 pixels.
Well that's gonna be my first thing.
And now let's add some width so I already have floated to the left.
And since that 1 3 column layout since I have three days I'm gonna sit with with percentage.
Now you don't have to do this as 3 three if you have four layers then use for 25 percent if five divs
20 percent and so on and so forth.
There's no rule that you have to use this kind of percentages.
The only reason why I'm doing this because I have three column layout so I know that I need to divide
hundred percent by three and this is gonna be the closest one that I want.
Okay.
What else I have.
Well I believe I had the div number two.
So I'm going to say here.
Class was number two and obviously we can head it over here and say for the day of all of them are going
to be floated to the left I am copying pasting a little bit too much meaning I'm repeating the same
things but just so we are on the same page.
Let's work one by one.
And here again we're going to say the same thing.
So this is gonna be my second one.
And you already have guessed that that if I would one the third one I would again need to do something
like this where this is gonna be number three and let's do this one as a green one.
Let me delete this.
This is gonna be number three and then we're gonna use the green.
So this is gonna be something we're going to be doing in a project we're gonna be doing whole but more
sophisticated not with red blue and green and all that but the general idea would be that if you want
some kind of column layout we're gonna be using the floating loft and just tell you that why this was
technically incorrect because I was repeating the actual properties with values I didn't have to do
that since all of them is gonna have the let's say height here with two hundred pixels I could have
just done something like this.
So I'm gonna cut this out and I'm gonna also cut it out.
These guys let's say like this now I'm floating all of them.
So all the divs Now obviously if you're gonna be adding more divs This isn't gonna mess up but since
in our case we just have three days.
I can just use this element selector and then what else we can do well we can get rid of all of them
so I can just say here that for each one of them the only that I would be interested is in fact the
background.
Now that way again.
Notice when the moment I'm saved.
Nothing changes everything.
Nothing breaks.
I still have my three column layer.
Now the reason for that is because I know I have all the divs so I had it for all of them left and then
some type of height.
Now you're not limited I can just say something like this here and just say that the height is gonna
be I don't know 400 so I'm still gonna have the 400 height.
Now my columns are going to be bigger.
And regardless of the screen size I'm still gonna have three column layout I do want to mention though
that we do need to work with clear.
So in my case what if I'm going to say having one with a simple Hello World I save it okay.
Everything is looking fine.
So technically we have cleared the ship and we have three column layout and we do have all here right
now we're having one but we know that if we're gonna go and let's say I had one more dev and this is
not gonna be the layout we're looking for.
So we're gonna go here and now having one is gonna be sitting actually side by side because again we
do have the property for the clearing there.
So in my case I would want to take adding one and you're gonna have the clear and the option would be
I guess the best case scenario would be.
Now I know in this case this might look like a unnecessary example.
You could say well having one was still fine order and then there's gonna be cases if you're using with
floats and by the way I want to let you know that in most cases you're going to use at this point already
probably flags.
But I do want to cover floats though and we will going to do the project when the float because I think
it's important for you to know the float but whenever you're using the float you do need to start practicing
of the fact that whenever is gonna be coming after something that you're floating you're adding this
clear property.
Otherwise there's gonna be cases where you're looking for mistakes and it's really hard to find and
that's why this is the easiest way where you right away use the clear property.
And again you can set it to left.
You can set it whatever direction you want but where you can use the both which in that case at least
you're making sure that whatever direction you're floating this is going to be fine.
But I would suggest using the property right away just in case you don't run into some kind of mistakes
later on.